TODO.md, before:


- [ ] Clarify how to list digests in (oci) ctf and artefact set under common oci API abstraction
- [ ] Align OCI and OCM Repository Name with type structure and reference syntax
- [ ] Aligned Denotation for OCM and OCI elements
- [X] Generalize Sort Field Detection and check
  - first ugly implementation done
- [ ] Artefact download with side artefacts (based on dedicated option)
- [ ] Rework Processing Chain/Iterable to work go-like with channels
- [ ] Generic History based sort function to be used to transform object sequence for tree output
- [ ] Recursion + Tree mode for OCI Indices
- [ ] Better separation between typehandler/chain and chain/output
- [X] Rework digest handling based on Resource Type and Access Method Spec
  - first cut and reorg done
- [ ] Complete handling of all possible input variations for the various CLI commands.
- [ ] Add signature handling
- [ ] Identify required scenarios for OCM transport handling and improve transport handler accordingly
- [ ] Add type factories for generic spec
- [ ] Provide size a and digest info for OCM blob access
- [ ] CD validation for sources enforces git
- [ ] decide on and introduce logging framework
- [ ] add optional reference name to resource input
- [ ] remove registry from default output and show only with wide output option (get artefact)

Commit message:

reorg packages for transfer + spiff transfer handler

TODO.md, after:


- [ ] Transfer MUST use a session to keep track of elements requiring a close
- [ ] Clarify how to list digests in (oci) ctf and artefact set under common oci API abstraction
- [ ] Align OCI and OCM Repository Name with type structure and reference syntax
- [ ] Aligned Denotation for OCM and OCI elements
- [X] Generalize Sort Field Detection and check
  - first ugly implementation done
- [ ] Artefact download with side artefacts (based on dedicated option)
- [ ] Rework Processing Chain/Iterable to work go-like with channels
- [ ] Generic History based sort function to be used to transform object sequence for tree output
- [ ] Recursion + Tree mode for OCI Indices
- [ ] Better separation between typehandler/chain and chain/output
- [X] Rework digest handling based on Resource Type and Access Method Spec
  - first cut and reorg done
- [ ] Complete handling of all possible input variations for the various CLI commands.
- [ ] Add signature handling
- [ ] Identify required scenarios for OCM transport handling and improve transport handler accordingly
- [ ] Add type factories for generic spec
- [ ] Provide size a and digest info for OCM blob access
- [ ] CD validation for sources enforces git
- [ ] decide on and introduce logging framework
- [ ] add optional reference name to resource input
- [ ] remove registry from default output and show only with wide output option (get artefact)
