examples/lib/tour/docsrc/02-composing-a-component-version/README.md, before:

{{compose-compvers}}
# Composing a Component Version

This tour illustrates the basic usage of the API to
create/compose component versions.

It covers two basic scenarios:
- [`basic`](01-basic-componentversion-creation.go) Create a component version stored in the file system
- [`compose`](02-composition-version.go) Create a component version stored in memory using a non-persistent composition version.

## Running the example

You can call the main program with the scenario as argument. Configuration is not required.

## Walkthrough

### Basic Component Version Creation

The first variant just creates a new component version
in an OCM repository. To avoid the requirement for 
credentials a file system based repository is created, using
the *Common Transport Format* (CTF).

As usual, we start with getting access to an OCM context
object:

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{default context}}
```

To compose and store a new component version
we need some OCM repository to
store the component. The most simple
external repository could be the file system.
For this purpose OCM defines a distribution format, the
*Common Transport Format* (CTF),
which is an extension of the OCI distribution
specification.
There are three flavors, *Directory*, *Tar* or *TGZ*.
The implementation provides a regular OCM repository
interface, like the one used in the previous example.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{create ctf}}
```

Once we have a repository we can compose a new version.
First, we create a new version backed by this repository.
The result is a memory based representation, which is not yet persisted.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{new version}}
```

Now, we can configure the component version. It only exists in memory
so far, but is already connected to the repository.

The setup of the component version is put into a 
separate method (`setupVersion`), so it can be reused for the second variant.

First, we configure the component version provider.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup provider}}
```

The provider is a structure with a name and some labels.
We just set the name here by directly setting the `Name` attribute.

Now, we fill the component version with content.
First, we add some resource already located in
an external registry. We use an OCI image here.
A resources has some metadata, like an identity
and a type.
The identity is just a set of string properties,
at least containing the `name` property.
Additional identity properties can be added via
options.
The type represents the logical meaning of the
resource, here an `ociImage`.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup resource meta}}
```

In this example, we just use the `name` property
without any extra identity.

And most importantly, a resource requires content.
Content can already be present in some external
repository. As long, as there is an access type
for this kind of repository, we can just refer to it.
Here, we just use an image provided by the
OCM ecosystem.
Supported access types can be found under
.../pkg/contexts/ocm/accessmethods.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup image access}}
```

Once we have both, the metadata and the content specification,
we can now add the resource to our component version. 
The `SetResource` methods will replace an existing resource with the same
identity, or add the resource, if no such resource exists in the component
version.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup resource}}
```

Now, we will add a second resource, some unspecific yaml data.
Therefore, we use the generic YAML resource type.
In practice, you should always use a resource type describing
the real meaning of the content, for example something like
`kubernetesManifest`. This enables tools working with specific content
to understand the resource set of a component version.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup second meta}}
```

Besides referring to external resources, another possibility
to add content is to directly provide the content blob. The
used abstraction here is `blobaccess.BlobAccess`.

Any blob content, which can be provided by an implementation of this
interface, can be added as resource to a component version.
The library provides various access implementations for blobs
taken from the local host or from other repositories.
For example, this could be some file system content.
To describe blobs taken from external repositories
an access type specification can be mapped to a blob access.
Hereby, blobs are stored along with the component descriptor
instead of storing a reference to content in an external repository.

The most simple form is to directly provide a byte sequence,
for example some YAML data.
A blob always must provide a mime type, describing the
technical format of the blob's byte sequence. This is different
from the resource type. A logical resource, like a *Helm chart* can be
represented in different technical formats, for example a Helm chart
archive or as OCI image archive. While the type described the
logical content, the meaning of the resource, its mime type
described the technical blob format used to represent
the resource as byte sequence.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{string blob access}}
```

When storing the blob, it is possible to provide some
optional additional information:
- a name of the resource described by the blob, which could
  be used to do a later upload into an external repository
  (for example the image repository of an OCI image stored
  as local blob)
- an additional access type, which provides an alternative
  global technology specific access to the same content
  (we don't use it, here).

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup by blob access}}
```

Resources added by blobs will be stored along with the component
version metadata in the same repository, no external
repository is required.

The above blob example describes the basic operations,
which can be used to compose any kind of resource 
from any kind of source.
For selected use cases there are convenience helpers available,
which can be used to compose a resource access object.
This is basically the same interface returned by `GetResource`
functions on the component version from the last example.
Such objects can directly be used to add/modify a resource in a
component version.

The above case could also be written as follows:

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup by access}}
```

The resource access is an abstraction of external access via access
methods or direct blob access objects and additionally
contain all the required resource metadata.

There are even more complex blob sources, for example
for Helm charts stored in the file system, or even for images
generated by docker builds.
Here, we just compose a multi-platform image built with `buildx`
from these sources (components/ocmcli) featuring two flavors.
(you have to execute `make image.multi` in components/ocmcli
before executing this example.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup by docker}}
```

{{composition-environment}}
### Composition Environment

The second variant just creates a new component version
in a memory based composition environment, no persistence is 
required. Like all component versions, such component versions
can be added to any repository later.

As usual, we start with getting access to an OCM context
object:

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{default context}}
```

Now, we can create a new component version in the composition
environment. This does not require a repository or component object.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{new version}}
```

To configure the component version, we can just reuse the coding
from the example above, the component version interface is just the same.
We just call the `setupVersion` function for the created component version access.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{setup version}}
```

The resulting component version can be added to any OCM repository,
like the one from the previous example.
Here, we use another feature of the composition environment. It also provides
complete memory based OCM repositories.
It has no storage backend and can be used to internally compose
a set of component versions, which can then be transferred
to any other repository (see [tour 05]({{transport}}))

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{create composition repository}}
```

This repository object behaves like any other OCM repository object. We can just
add the new component version.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{add version}}
```

Commit message:

Rework adding elements to a component version (#844)
#### What this PR does / why we need it:

The previous mechanism for adding elements (resources, sources and
references) to a component version
provided a hybrid mechanism, only:
- check if an element with the given identity already exists -> replace
it
- if no entry is found -> append

This behaviour does not allow to add elements with the same base
identity but a different version, if the version
is not explicitly added to the extra identity.
So, far this explicit handling of the version is not required, because
it is implicitly done when evaluating the element list.

This PR add new options to the Set methods for the three element kinds
on the component version access to specify the exact desired behaviour:
- Replace a dedicated index
- Replace a dedicated identity
- Update an existing entry
- Append a new entry

The default behaviour is unchanged. It is sufficient for the most common
use cases, as long as no
duplicate entries with different versions should be added.

The CLI commands have been adjusted to use the *Append* mode by default.
This is exactly what is desired if new component versions are composed.
If an existing version should be modified, it is possible to use the
option `-R` to switch to the default mode.

#### Which issue(s) this PR fixes:
Fixes #842

---------

Co-authored-by: Fabian Burth <fabian.burth@sap.com>

examples/lib/tour/docsrc/02-composing-a-component-version/README.md, after:

{{compose-compvers}}
# Composing a Component Version

This tour illustrates the basic usage of the API to
create/compose component versions.

It covers two basic scenarios:
- [`basic`](01-basic-componentversion-creation.go) Create a component version stored in the file system
- [`compose`](02-composition-version.go) Create a component version stored in memory using a non-persistent composition version.

## Running the example

You can call the main program with the scenario as argument. Configuration is not required.

## Walkthrough

### Basic Component Version Creation

The first variant just creates a new component version
in an OCM repository. To avoid the requirement for 
credentials a file system based repository is created, using
the *Common Transport Format* (CTF).

As usual, we start with getting access to an OCM context
object:

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{default context}}
```

To compose and store a new component version
we need some OCM repository to
store the component. The most simple
external repository could be the file system.
For this purpose OCM defines a distribution format, the
*Common Transport Format* (CTF),
which is an extension of the OCI distribution
specification.
There are three flavors, *Directory*, *Tar* or *TGZ*.
The implementation provides a regular OCM repository
interface, like the one used in the previous example.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{create ctf}}
```

Once we have a repository we can compose a new version.
First, we create a new version backed by this repository.
The result is a memory based representation, which is not yet persisted.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{new version}}
```

Now, we can configure the component version. It only exists in memory
so far, but is already connected to the repository.

The setup of the component version is put into a 
separate method (`setupVersion`), so it can be reused for the second variant.

First, we configure the component version provider.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup provider}}
```

The provider is a structure with a name and some labels.
We just set the name here by directly setting the `Name` attribute.

Now, we fill the component version with content.
First, we add some resource already located in
an external registry. We use an OCI image here.
A resources has some metadata, like an identity
and a type.
The identity is just a set of string properties,
at least containing the `name` property.
Additional identity properties can be added via
options.
The type represents the logical meaning of the
resource, here an `ociImage`.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup resource meta}}
```

In this example, we just use the `name` property
without any extra identity.

And most importantly, a resource requires content.
Content can already be present in some external
repository. As long, as there is an access type
for this kind of repository, we can just refer to it.
Here, we just use an image provided by the
OCM ecosystem.
Supported access types can be found under
.../pkg/contexts/ocm/accessmethods.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup image access}}
```

Once we have both, the metadata and the content specification,
we can now add the resource to our component version. 
The `SetResource` methods will replace an existing resource with the same
identity, or add the resource, if no such resource exists in the component
version.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup resource}}
```

Now, we will add a second resource, some unspecific yaml data.
Therefore, we use the generic YAML resource type.
In practice, you should always use a resource type describing
the real meaning of the content, for example something like
`kubernetesManifest`. This enables tools working with specific content
to understand the resource set of a component version.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup second meta}}
```

Besides referring to external resources, another possibility
to add content is to directly provide the content blob. The
used abstraction here is `blobaccess.BlobAccess`.

Any blob content, which can be provided by an implementation of this
interface, can be added as resource to a component version.
The library provides various access implementations for blobs
taken from the local host or from other repositories.
For example, this could be some file system content.
To describe blobs taken from external repositories
an access type specification can be mapped to a blob access.
Hereby, blobs are stored along with the component descriptor
instead of storing a reference to content in an external repository.

The most simple form is to directly provide a byte sequence,
for example some YAML data.
A blob always must provide a mime type, describing the
technical format of the blob's byte sequence. This is different
from the resource type. A logical resource, like a *Helm chart* can be
represented in different technical formats, for example a Helm chart
archive or as OCI image archive. While the type described the
logical content, the meaning of the resource, its mime type
described the technical blob format used to represent
the resource as byte sequence.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{string blob access}}
```

When storing the blob, it is possible to provide some
optional additional information:
- a name of the resource described by the blob, which could
  be used to do a later upload into an external repository
  (for example the image repository of an OCI image stored
  as local blob)
- an additional access type, which provides an alternative
  global technology specific access to the same content
  (we don't use it, here).

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup by blob access}}
```

Resources added by blobs will be stored along with the component
version metadata in the same repository, no external
repository is required.

The above blob example describes the basic operations,
which can be used to compose any kind of resource 
from any kind of source.
For selected use cases there are convenience helpers available,
which can be used to compose a resource access object.
This is basically the same interface returned by `GetResource`
functions on the component version from the last example.
Such objects can directly be used to add/modify a resource in a
component version.

The above case could also be written as follows:

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup by access}}
```

The resource access is an abstraction of external access via access
methods or direct blob access objects and additionally
contain all the required resource metadata.

All kinds of `SetXXX` methods optionally accept options used to influence
the target in the element list. It is possible to
- enforce an append (`ocm.AppendElement`)
- enforce a dedicated index (`ocm.TargetIndex(n)`)
- enforce the replacement of a dedicated element identity (`ocm.TargetIdentity(...)`)
- replace a dedicated element identity or append (`ocm.TargetIdentityOrAppend(...)`)
- enforce a replacement (`ocm.UpdateElement`)

By default, always a replacement is done if an appropriate element is
found, otherwise it is appended.

There are even more complex blob sources, for example
for Helm charts stored in the file system, or even for images
generated by docker builds.
Here, we just compose a multi-platform image built with `buildx`
from these sources (components/ocmcli) featuring two flavors.
(you have to execute `make image.multi` in components/ocmcli
before executing this example.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/01-basic-componentversion-creation.go}{setup by docker}}
```

{{composition-environment}}
### Composition Environment

The second variant just creates a new component version
in a memory based composition environment, no persistence is 
required. Like all component versions, such component versions
can be added to any repository later.

As usual, we start with getting access to an OCM context
object:

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{default context}}
```

Now, we can create a new component version in the composition
environment. This does not require a repository or component object.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{new version}}
```

To configure the component version, we can just reuse the coding
from the example above, the component version interface is just the same.
We just call the `setupVersion` function for the created component version access.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{setup version}}
```

The resulting component version can be added to any OCM repository,
like the one from the previous example.
Here, we use another feature of the composition environment. It also provides
complete memory based OCM repositories.
It has no storage backend and can be used to internally compose
a set of component versions, which can then be transferred
to any other repository (see [tour 05]({{transport}}))

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{create composition repository}}
```

This repository object behaves like any other OCM repository object. We can just
add the new component version.

```go
{{include}{../../02-composing-a-component-version/02-composition-version.go}{add version}}
```
