docs/reference/ocm_download_componentversions.md, before:

## ocm download componentversions &mdash; Download Ocm Component Versions

### Synopsis

```
ocm download componentversions [<options>] {<components>}
```

##### Aliases

```
componentversions, componentversion, cv, components, component, comps, comp, c
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help             help for componentversions
  -O, --outfile string   output file or directory
      --repo string      repository name or spec
  -t, --type string      archive format (directory, tar, tgz) (default "directory")
```

### Description


Download component versions from an OCM repository. The result is stored in
component archives.

The files are named according to the component version name.


If the <code>--repo</code> option is specified, the given names are interpreted
relative to the specified repository using the syntax

<center>
    <pre>&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

If no <code>--repo</code> option is specified the given names are interpreted
as located OCM component version references:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;host>[:&lt;port>][/&lt;base path>]//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

Additionally there is a variant to denote common transport archives
and general repository specifications

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;filepath>|&lt;spec json>[//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]]</pre>
</center>

The <code>--repo</code> option takes an OCM repository specification:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;configured name>|&lt;file path>|&lt;spec json></pre>
</center>

For the *Common Transport Format* the types <code>directory</code>,
<code>tar</code> or <code>tgz</code> is possible.

Using the JSON variant any repository types supported by the
linked library can be used:

Dedicated OCM repository types:
  - <code>ComponentArchive</code>: v1

OCI Repository types (using standard component repository to OCI mapping):
  - <code>CommonTransportFormat</code>: v1
  - <code>OCIRegistry</code>: v1
  - <code>oci</code>: v1
  - <code>ociRegistry</code>


The <code>--type</code> option accepts a file format for the
target archive to use. The following formats are supported:
- directory
- tar
- tgz

The default format is <code>directory</code>.


### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm download](ocm_download.md)	 &mdash; Download oci artifacts, resources or complete components
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client

Commit message:

Improve errors (#850)
#### What this PR does / why we need it:
`ocm transfer cv` command ignored the -t flag if the ctf already
existed. This PR adds documentation to specify that this is intended
behavior.

The ocm download command `ocm download cv` command did not return
anything (not even an error) if the requested component version did not
exist. This is fixed by this PR.



#### Which issue(s) this PR fixes:
Fixes https://github.com/open-component-model/ocm-project/issues/203

The nil pointer exception was already fixed with version v0.12.0. But as
mentioned above, users got no feedback.

docs/reference/ocm_download_componentversions.md, after:

## ocm download componentversions &mdash; Download Ocm Component Versions

### Synopsis

```
ocm download componentversions [<options>] {<components>}
```

##### Aliases

```
componentversions, componentversion, cv, components, component, comps, comp, c
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help             help for componentversions
  -O, --outfile string   output file or directory
      --repo string      repository name or spec
  -t, --type string      archive format (directory, tar, tgz) (default "directory")
```

### Description


Download component versions from an OCM repository. The result is stored in
component archives.

The files are named according to the component version name.


If the <code>--repo</code> option is specified, the given names are interpreted
relative to the specified repository using the syntax

<center>
    <pre>&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

If no <code>--repo</code> option is specified the given names are interpreted
as located OCM component version references:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;host>[:&lt;port>][/&lt;base path>]//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

Additionally there is a variant to denote common transport archives
and general repository specifications

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;filepath>|&lt;spec json>[//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]]</pre>
</center>

The <code>--repo</code> option takes an OCM repository specification:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;configured name>|&lt;file path>|&lt;spec json></pre>
</center>

For the *Common Transport Format* the types <code>directory</code>,
<code>tar</code> or <code>tgz</code> is possible.

Using the JSON variant any repository types supported by the
linked library can be used:

Dedicated OCM repository types:
  - <code>ComponentArchive</code>: v1

OCI Repository types (using standard component repository to OCI mapping):
  - <code>CommonTransportFormat</code>: v1
  - <code>OCIRegistry</code>: v1
  - <code>oci</code>: v1
  - <code>ociRegistry</code>


The <code>--type</code> option accepts a file format for the
target archive to use. It is only evaluated if the target
archive does not exist yet. The following formats are supported:
- directory
- tar
- tgz

The default format is <code>directory</code>.


### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm download](ocm_download.md)	 &mdash; Download oci artifacts, resources or complete components
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client
