docs/reference/ocm_verify_componentversions.md, before:

## ocm verify componentversions &mdash; Verify Signature Of Component Version

### Synopsis

```
ocm verify componentversions [<options>] {<component-reference>}
```

### Options

```
      --ca-cert stringArray      Additional root certificates
  -h, --help                     help for componentversions
  -k, --public-key stringArray   public key setting
  -r, --repo string              repository name or spec
  -s, --signature stringArray    signature name
  -V, --verify                   verify existing digests
```

### Description


Verify signature of specified component versions. 

If the <code>--repo</code> option is specified, the given names are interpreted
relative to the specified repository using the syntax

<center>
    <pre>&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

If no <code>--repo</code> option is specified the given names are interpreted 
as located OCM component version references:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;host>[:&lt;port>][/&lt;base path>]//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

Additionally there is a variant to denote common transport archives
and general repository specifications

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;filepath>|&lt;spec json>[//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]]</pre>
</center>

The <code>--repo</code> option takes an OCM repository specification:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;configured name>|&lt;file path>|&lt;spec json></pre>
</center>

For the *Common Transport Format* the types <code>directory</code>,
<code>tar</code> or <code>tgz</code> is possible.

Using the JSON variant any repository type supported by the 
linked library can be used:

Dedicated OCM repository types:
- `ComponentArchive`

OCI Repository types (using standard component repository to OCI mapping):
- `ArtefactSet`
- `CommonTransportFormat`
- `DockerDaemon`
- `Empty`
- `OCIRegistry`
- `oci`
- `ociRegistry`

The <code>--public-key</code> and <code>--private-key</code> options can be
used to define public and private keys on the command line. The options have an
argument of the form <code>[&lt;name>=]&lt;filepath></code>. The optional name
specifies the signature name the key should be used for. By default this is the
signature name specified with the option <code>--signature</code>.

Alternatively a key can be specified as base64 encoded string if the argument
start with the prefix <code>!</code> or as direct string with the prefix
<code>=</code>.


### Examples

```
$ ocm verify componentversion --signature mandelsoft --public-key=mandelsoft.key ghcr.io/mandelsoft/kubelink
```

### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm verify](ocm_verify.md)	 &mdash; Verify component version signatures
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client

Commit message:

Fixes for upcoming issues during demo preparation + improvements discovered during execution of the demo flow (#78)
* dockerdaemon: fallback to cli handling for empty daemonhost
* use proper docker context for non default docker daemon ports
* improve component makefiles
* fix resolver error
* fix dep in makefile
* configurable component ref in makefile
* rework signing to support top-level signing
* fix closes in transfer handling
* TOI: fix datatransfer, OCM: fix hint calculation
* Meaningful error message for unresolved comp reference
* improve hint provisioning of resource inputs
* fix makefiles
* fix error messages in resource input + improve signing errors
* fix default compressed dir input mime type
* generate and lint everything

Co-authored-by: jensh007 <j.huebel@sap.com>

docs/reference/ocm_verify_componentversions.md, after:

## ocm verify componentversions &mdash; Verify Signature Of Component Version

### Synopsis

```
ocm verify componentversions [<options>] {<component-reference>}
```

### Options

```
      --ca-cert stringArray      Additional root certificates
  -h, --help                     help for componentversions
  -L, --local                    verification based on information found in component versions, only
      --lookup stringArray       repository name or spec for closure lookup fallback
  -k, --public-key stringArray   public key setting
  -r, --repo string              repository name or spec
  -s, --signature stringArray    signature name
  -V, --verify                   verify existing digests
```

### Description


Verify signature of specified component versions. 

If the <code>--repo</code> option is specified, the given names are interpreted
relative to the specified repository using the syntax

<center>
    <pre>&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

If no <code>--repo</code> option is specified the given names are interpreted 
as located OCM component version references:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;host>[:&lt;port>][/&lt;base path>]//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]</pre>
</center>

Additionally there is a variant to denote common transport archives
and general repository specifications

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;filepath>|&lt;spec json>[//&lt;component>[:&lt;version>]]</pre>
</center>

The <code>--repo</code> option takes an OCM repository specification:

<center>
    <pre>[&lt;repo type>::]&lt;configured name>|&lt;file path>|&lt;spec json></pre>
</center>

For the *Common Transport Format* the types <code>directory</code>,
<code>tar</code> or <code>tgz</code> is possible.

Using the JSON variant any repository type supported by the 
linked library can be used:

Dedicated OCM repository types:
- `ComponentArchive`

OCI Repository types (using standard component repository to OCI mapping):
- `ArtefactSet`
- `CommonTransportFormat`
- `DockerDaemon`
- `Empty`
- `OCIRegistry`
- `oci`
- `ociRegistry`

The <code>--public-key</code> and <code>--private-key</code> options can be
used to define public and private keys on the command line. The options have an
argument of the form <code>[&lt;name>=]&lt;filepath></code>. The optional name
specifies the signature name the key should be used for. By default this is the
signature name specified with the option <code>--signature</code>.

Alternatively a key can be specified as base64 encoded string if the argument
start with the prefix <code>!</code> or as direct string with the prefix
<code>=</code>.

If a component lookup for building a reference closure is required
the <code>--lookup</code>  option can be used to specify a fallback
lookup repository. 
By default the component versions are searched in the repository
holding the component version for which the closure is determined.
For *Component Archives* this is never possible, because it only
contains a single component version. Therefore, in this scenario
this option must always be specified to be able to follow component
references.


### Examples

```
$ ocm verify componentversion --signature mandelsoft --public-key=mandelsoft.key ghcr.io/mandelsoft/kubelink
```

### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm verify](ocm_verify.md)	 &mdash; Verify component version signatures
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client
