docs/reference/ocm_create_componentarchive.md, before:

## ocm create componentarchive &mdash; Create New Component Archive

### Synopsis

```
ocm create componentarchive [<options>] <component> <version> --provider <provider-name> {--provider <label>=<value>} {<label>=<value>}
```

##### Aliases

```
componentarchive, comparch, ca
```

### Options

```
  -F, --file string            target file/directory (default "component-archive")
  -f, --force                  remove existing content
  -h, --help                   help for componentarchive
  -p, --provider stringArray   provider attribute
  -S, --scheme string          schema version (default "v2")
  -t, --type string            archive format (directory, tar, tgz) (default "directory")
```

### Description


Create a new component archive. This might be either a directory prepared
to host component version content or a tar/tgz file (see option --type).

A provider must be specified, additional provider labels are optional.


The <code>--type</code> option accepts a file format for the
target archive to use. The following formats are supported:
- directory
- tar
- tgz

The default format is <code>directory</code>.


If the option <code>--scheme</code> is given, the specified component descriptor format is used/generated.

The following schema versions are supported for explicit conversions:
  - <code>ocm.software/v3alpha1</code>
  - <code>v2</code> (default)


### Examples

```
$ ocm create componentarchive --file myfirst --provider acme.org --provider email=alice@acme.org acme.org/demo 1.0
```

### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm create](ocm_create.md)	 &mdash; Create transport or component archive
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client

Commit message:

Improve errors (#850)
#### What this PR does / why we need it:
`ocm transfer cv` command ignored the -t flag if the ctf already
existed. This PR adds documentation to specify that this is intended
behavior.

The ocm download command `ocm download cv` command did not return
anything (not even an error) if the requested component version did not
exist. This is fixed by this PR.



#### Which issue(s) this PR fixes:
Fixes https://github.com/open-component-model/ocm-project/issues/203

The nil pointer exception was already fixed with version v0.12.0. But as
mentioned above, users got no feedback.

docs/reference/ocm_create_componentarchive.md, after:

## ocm create componentarchive &mdash; Create New Component Archive

### Synopsis

```
ocm create componentarchive [<options>] <component> <version> --provider <provider-name> {--provider <label>=<value>} {<label>=<value>}
```

##### Aliases

```
componentarchive, comparch, ca
```

### Options

```
  -F, --file string            target file/directory (default "component-archive")
  -f, --force                  remove existing content
  -h, --help                   help for componentarchive
  -p, --provider stringArray   provider attribute
  -S, --scheme string          schema version (default "v2")
  -t, --type string            archive format (directory, tar, tgz) (default "directory")
```

### Description


Create a new component archive. This might be either a directory prepared
to host component version content or a tar/tgz file (see option --type).

A provider must be specified, additional provider labels are optional.


The <code>--type</code> option accepts a file format for the
target archive to use. It is only evaluated if the target
archive does not exist yet. The following formats are supported:
- directory
- tar
- tgz

The default format is <code>directory</code>.


If the option <code>--scheme</code> is given, the specified component descriptor format is used/generated.

The following schema versions are supported for explicit conversions:
  - <code>ocm.software/v3alpha1</code>
  - <code>v2</code> (default)


### Examples

```
$ ocm create componentarchive --file myfirst --provider acme.org --provider email=alice@acme.org acme.org/demo 1.0
```

### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm create](ocm_create.md)	 &mdash; Create transport or component archive
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client
