docs/reference/ocm_credentials_get.md, before:

## ocm credentials get &mdash; Get Credentials For A Dedicated Consumer Spec

### Synopsis

```
ocm credentials get {<consumer property>=<value>}
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help             help for get
  -m, --matcher string   matcher type override
```

### Description


Try to resolve a given consumer specification against the configured credential
settings and show the found credential attributes.

For the following usage contexts with matchers and standard identity matchers exist:

  - <code>OCIRegistry</code>: OCI registry credential matcher
    
    It matches the <code>OCIRegistry</code> consumer type and additionally acts like 
    the <code>hostpath</code> type.

  - <code>exact</code>: exact match of given pattern set

  - <code>hostpath</code>: Host and path based credential matcher
    
    This matcher works on the following properties:
    
    - *<code>hostname</code>* (required): the hostname of a server
    - *<code>port</code>* (optional): the port of a server
    - *<code>pathprefix</code>* (optional): a path prefix to match. The 
      element with the most matching path components is selected (separator is <code>/</code>).
    

  - <code>partial</code>: complete match of given pattern ignoring additional attributes


The used matcher is derived from the consumer attribute <code>type</code>.
For all other consumer types a matcher matching all attributes will be used.
The usage of a dedicated matcher can be enforced by the option <code>--matcher</code>.


### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm credentials](ocm_credentials.md)	 &mdash; Commands acting on credentials
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client

Commit message:

Fixes for upcoming issues during demo preparation + improvements discovered during execution of the demo flow (#78)
* dockerdaemon: fallback to cli handling for empty daemonhost
* use proper docker context for non default docker daemon ports
* improve component makefiles
* fix resolver error
* fix dep in makefile
* configurable component ref in makefile
* rework signing to support top-level signing
* fix closes in transfer handling
* TOI: fix datatransfer, OCM: fix hint calculation
* Meaningful error message for unresolved comp reference
* improve hint provisioning of resource inputs
* fix makefiles
* fix error messages in resource input + improve signing errors
* fix default compressed dir input mime type
* generate and lint everything

Co-authored-by: jensh007 <j.huebel@sap.com>

docs/reference/ocm_credentials_get.md, after:

## ocm credentials get &mdash; Get Credentials For A Dedicated Consumer Spec

### Synopsis

```
ocm credentials get {<consumer property>=<value>}
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help             help for get
  -m, --matcher string   matcher type override
```

### Description


Try to resolve a given consumer specification against the configured credential
settings and show the found credential attributes.

For the following usage contexts with matchers and standard identity matchers exist:

  - <code>Buildcredentials.gardener.cloud</code>: Gardener config credential matcher
    
    It matches the <code>Buildcredentials.gardener.cloud</code> consumer type and additionally acts like 
    the <code>hostpath</code> type.

  - <code>OCIRegistry</code>: OCI registry credential matcher
    
    It matches the <code>OCIRegistry</code> consumer type and additionally acts like 
    the <code>hostpath</code> type.

  - <code>exact</code>: exact match of given pattern set

  - <code>hostpath</code>: Host and path based credential matcher
    
    This matcher works on the following properties:
    
    - *<code>hostname</code>* (required): the hostname of a server
    - *<code>port</code>* (optional): the port of a server
    - *<code>pathprefix</code>* (optional): a path prefix to match. The 
      element with the most matching path components is selected (separator is <code>/</code>).
    

  - <code>partial</code>: complete match of given pattern ignoring additional attributes


The used matcher is derived from the consumer attribute <code>type</code>.
For all other consumer types a matcher matching all attributes will be used.
The usage of a dedicated matcher can be enforced by the option <code>--matcher</code>.


### SEE ALSO

##### Parents

* [ocm credentials](ocm_credentials.md)	 &mdash; Commands acting on credentials
* [ocm](ocm.md)	 &mdash; Open Component Model command line client
